<h1>Software Carpentry Steering Committee Meeting Minutes</h1>
<p><strong>Date:</strong> 2017-01-04</p>
<h2>Attendance</h2>
<h3>Steering Committee Members</h3>
<ul>

<li>Karin Lagesen</li>

<li>Jason Williams</li>

<li>Raniere Silva</li>

<li>Bill Mills</li>

<li>Rayna Harris</li>

<li>Belinda Weaver</li>

<li>Kate Hertweck</li>

</ul>
<h3>Staff</h3>
<ul>

<li>Jonah Duckles</li>

<li>Greg Wilson</li>

</ul>
<h3>Others</h3>
<ul>

<li>Tracy Teal</li>

</ul>
<h3>Not attending</h3>
<ul>

<li>Maneesha Sane</li>

</ul>

<h2>Updates</h2>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Williams.</p>
<p>Text: Thanks to Greg Wilson for his work. As Greg <a href="https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2016/12/next-steps.html">announced last month</a> he will stop working for us at the end of this month.</p>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Williams.</p>
<p>Text: 2017 Steering Committee Election</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<p>We have seven candidates:</p>
<ul>
<li>Belinda Weaver</li>
<li>Karin Lagesen</li>
<li>Mateusz Kuzak</li>
<li>Christina Koch</li>
<li>Kate Hertweck</li>
<li>Rayna Harris</li>
<li>Sue McClatchy</li>
</ul>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Progress on <a href="https://www.elixir-europe.org/">ELIXIR</a>'s documents.</p>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Working on developing plan for filling gaps from Greg's departure.</p>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Jonah is on the Steering Committee for the <a href="https://www.software.ac.uk/">Software Sustainability Institute</a>'s <a href="https://www.software.ac.uk/cw17">Collaboration Workshop</a> in March.</p>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/6</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Software Carpentry has been included in the planning for a Digital Humanities grant in the Nordic countries as part of <a href="https://neic.nordforsk.org/">Nordic eInfrastructure Collaboration</a> (NeIC).</p>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/7</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: There is some movement to develop a Local Communities Subcommittee as a spin-off of the Mentoring Subcommittee.</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<p>Mark Laufersweiler, from the University of Oklahoma, and Christina Koch, from the University of Wisconsin, have been tossing around the idea.</p>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/8</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Software Carpentry Steering Committee are set to communicate to Software Carpentry Advisory Council that the Steering Committee are seeking a new chair and sending out a short open-ended survey to collect insights into how Advisory Members and other admininstrative staffs at member organisations see the value of Software Carpentry.</p>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/9</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Based on Jonah's trip to Europe in September Software Carpentry has several partnerships that have been moved forward.</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<p>This is related with the partnership or conversation with </p>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://www.elixir-europe.org/">ELIXIR</a>, Europe;</li>
<li><a href="http://www.au.dk/en/">Aarhus University</a>, Denmark;</li>
<li><a href="https://www.esciencecenter.nl/">Netherlands eScience Infrastructure</a>, Netherlands;</li>
<li><a href="http://www.gfz-potsdam.de/startseite/">GFZ German Research Centre for Geosciences</a>, Germany.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/10</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Tracy let Jonah know that Software Carpentry are not likely to be getting a paid System Administrator any time soon.</p>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/11</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: <a href="https://talkpython.fm/episodes/show/93/spreading-python-through-the-sciences-with-software-carpentry">New episode of TalkPython</a> featuring a conversation about Software Carpentry past, present, and future.</p>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/12</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Survey of member organisations in progress.</p>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/13</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: December training events</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://www.pnl.gov/">Pacific Northwest National Laboratory</a> (PNNL),</li>
<li><a href="https://illinois.edu/">University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign</a> (UIUC),</li>
<li><a href="https://www.ucsf.edu/">University of California, San Francisco</a> (UCSF),</li>
<li><a href="https://www2.ucar.edu/">University Corporation for Atmospheric Research</a> (UCAR),</li>
<li><a href="https://ucsd.edu/">University of California, San Diego</a> (UCSD),</li>
<li><a href="https://www.caltech.edu/">California Institute of Technology</a> (Caltech),</li>
<li>Open Online Sessions for Australia and New Zealand (last offer for 2016).</li>
</ul>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/14</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: 18 Software Carpentry and 22 Data Carpentry instructor badges awarded to 36 people.</p>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/15</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Instructors Trainers</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<ul>
<li>Belinda Weaver is now certificed,</li>
<li>Alistair Walsh is now certified,</li>
<li>Tim Dennis is ready to start,</li>
<li>Trainers agreed to schedule regular weekly demo sessions in slots not being used by discussion sessions,</li>
<li>All currently in training have fallen behind because of other commitments: need to re-think mechanics of trainer training.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/16</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Upcoming training events:</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<ul>
<li>2017-01-11 for NIH, Virginia Tech, Oklahoma State, Great Plains Network</li>
<li>2017-01-19 for DOE Exascale Project</li>
<li>2016-01-25 for NZ Otago</li>
<li>2017-02-09 for Utah State</li>
<li>2017-02-13 for NIH</li>
<li>2017-03-07 for NIH and Great Plains Network</li>
<li>2017-03-16 for Oxford</li>
<li>2017-03-24 for University of Puerto Rico</li>
</ul>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/17</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Miscellaneous</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<ul>
<li>Lesson release pushed back to 2017-01. Kate Hertweck is overseeing, Remi Emonet will prepare files, and Greg Wilson will submit to Zenodo.</li>
<li>Maneesha Sane now overseeing AMY development/release.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Update #2017-01-04/18</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Last day as Director of Instructor Training will be January 27.</p>



<h2>Motions</h2>

<h3>Motion #2017-01-04/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Raniere Silva.</p>
<p>Text: Elect the seven candidates for the Steering Committee by acclamation.</p>
<p>Resolution: Unlawful.</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<p>Our election says that we have 7 seats for the Steering Committee and we only have 7 candidates what make the election unnecessary. Announce the 7 candidates to save time and speed up the transaction.</p>

<h3>Motion #2017-01-04/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Karin Lagen.</p>
<p>Text: We open for new signup for candidacy until January 11th.</p>
<p>Resolution: Unlawful.</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<p>Counter motion for previous motion.</p>

<h3>Motion #2017-01-04/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Kate Hertweck.</p>
<p>Text: Approve revisions to lesson maintainers and creation of lesson infrastructure subcommittees.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<p>As our lessons have matured, the organization and leadership of the group of individuals maintaining the lessons requires a new approach. We are in the process of restructuring the responsibilities of maintainers, as well as forming a new Lesson Infrastructure subcommittee, who will oversee general issues related to more than one lesson. The following two proposals have been reviewed by representatives of the maintainers and have been opened for community discussion.</p>
<p><a href="https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/155">Lesson infrastructure subcommittee proposal</a></p>
<p><a href="https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/154">Maintainer subcommittee revision</a></p>

<h3>Motion #2017-01-04/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: Reimburse Jason Wiliams up to $500 in travel expenses for his attendance at the Survey Design workshop run by Tracy Teal and Kari Jordan.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<p>On November 4th, Tracy notified us that progress is being made on survey designs for both Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry workshops. They requested that a Software Carpentry Steering Committee member be present. As Jason is in California during the time attending another meeting, he is requesting reimbursement for travel expense up to $500.</p>

<h3>Motion #2017-01-04/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Approve subcommittee to support local/regional instructor communities</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<p>This is a subcommittee that is a logical-follow on from Mentorship, but just spins off the local and in-person mentorship activities going on informally into a more formalized and periodic conversation. It is exploratory and has some good metrics for spin-up and impact evaluation. This is a regular topic of discussion with prospective members and I think having some formality and support structure here will be great for sharing local tips and tricks. Mark Laufersweiler has volunteered to chair this activity under the guidance of an Software Carpentry Liaison and involvement from Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry staff. This should put some formality around the actions of building local instructor communities.</p>
<p><a href="https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/158">Github Pull Request</a></p>



<h2>Discussions</h2>

<h3>Discussion #2017-01-04/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: Annual Report and Quarterly Objectives</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable.</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<p>We need to start working on a report of the 2016 activities and also bounce some ideas around for moving into a quarterly planning framework with goals and deliverables that the next committee can be handed off into.</p>

<h3>Discussion #2017-01-04/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: R Studio Instructors List</p>
<p>Resolution: Left for email discussion</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<p>Garrett Grolemund, from Rstudio, would like more (and more diverse) people on <a href="https://www.rstudio.com/instructors/">RStudio instructors' roster</a> and thinks Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry instructors might be interested in letting the world know they're willing to teach for pay. How should we proceed?</p>

<h3>Discussion #2017-01-04/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Kate Hertweck.</p>
<p>Text: Strategic planning</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable.</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<p>What is the current status of reunification of the Carpentries? We haven't discussed this since our in-person meeting, but I know there's been movement towards consolidating policies, the website, etc. What is our strategy here? Is anyone else interested in a comprehensive organizational chart and/or list of roles/responsibilities?</p>

<h3>Discussion #2017-01-04/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Rayna Harris.</p>
<p>Text: Carpentry Con Proposal</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable.</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<p>Community building: bringing together members from around the globe.</p>
<p>Professional development: We will have a 'come and learn' format that is different from most conferences. </p>
<p>Contributed talks/posters: To help offset costs, there will be sessions where attendees can share how they have incorporated into their own research and teaching.</p>
<p>Aligns well with Library Carpentry gathering, will celebrate mother's day in a uniquely scientific/community way.</p>
<p>In theory will be a self-funded event that spawns that covers its owns costs </p>
<p><a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NzZiTsPMArUyZ2S-pblOZZ84a-xp23Zuu6IjD-YXIEg/edit">Google doc</a> and <a href="http://pad.software-carpentry.org/2017carpentrycontaskforce">Etherpad</a></p>

<h3>Discussion #2017-01-04/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: Carpentries hiring and revision of staff roles</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable.</p>
<p>Details:</p>
<p>Carpentries staff and members of the SC have meet twice in the last few weeks to discuss revision to staff duties and possible new hires in first quarter 2017.</p>
<p>Erin will move to a role more Instructor Training oriented if we can fill the other activities.</p>



<h2>Actions</h2>
<ol>

<li><p>Kate Hertweck: Transfer the document into the current format.</p></li>

<li><p>Raniere Silva: Help Kate with the documents and website.</p></li>

</ol>
