<h1>Software Carpentry Steering Committee Meeting Minutes</h1>
<p><strong>Date:</strong> 2016-09-08</p>
<h2>Attendance</h2>
<h3>Steering Committee Members</h3>
<ul>

<li>Raniere Silva</li>

<li>Bill Mills</li>

<li>Rayna Harris</li>

<li>Belinda Weaver</li>

<li>Kate Hertweck</li>

</ul>
<h3>Staff</h3>
<ul>

<li>Jonah Duckles</li>

<li>Greg Wilson</li>

<li>Maneesha Sane</li>

</ul>
<h3>Others</h3>
<ul>

</ul>
<h3>Not attending</h3>
<ul>

<li>Karin Lagesen</li>

<li>Jason Williams</li>

<li>Tracy Teal</li>

</ul>

<h2>Updates</h2>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Traveling during the meeting time from Berlin to Copenhagen</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Aarhus University in Denmark intends to partner.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Presentation at Aarhus University in Denmark lead to partnership approval at the "Interacting Minds Center".</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Meeting with Danish ELIXR node lead trainer. Excited to convince University of Copenhagen to partner for <a href="https://www.elixir-europe.org/">ELIXIR</a> node benefit and possibly spread to other (non-biology) disciplines.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Meeting/Presentation with DeIC (Danish eInfrastructure Collaboration) and NeIC (Nordic eInfrastructure Collaboration) personnel. Interesting synergies for lesson development collaborations with the recently funded <a href="http://cicero.xyz/v2/remark/github/coderefinery/talk-general/master/talk.mkd/#1">CodeRefinery</a> (a project of NeIC).</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/6</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Meetings at eResearch Netherlands, building joint partnership from eResearch and <a href="https://www.surf.nl/en/about-surf/subsidiaries/surfsara/">SURFsara</a> together.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/7</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Meetings with <a href="https://www.surf.nl/">SURF</a>, eResearch, other universities and <a href="https://www.elixir-europe.org/">ELIXIR</a> Training Coordinators - building a strategy for The Netherlands to be involved in the Carpentries. Everyone wants to be involved, just working on how to best do it. </p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/8</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Good momentum at Helmoholtz Institutes, but a very slow moving organization. 30 scientists attended my talk.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/9</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Met with one of our champion in Botswana and got an invitation to a Pan African HPC strategy meeting in at SuperComputing (SC) 2016 in Salt Lake City in November.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/10</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: I will likely travel to Rome in October to meet all <a href="https://www.elixir-europe.org/">ELIXIR</a> training coordinators and deliver a presentation in an <a href="https://www.elixir-europe.org/">ELIXIR</a>/EMBL workshop. Tracy has an abstract accepted to speak at the conference to follow, and I will work with her to present it while I’m there.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/11</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: University of Connecticut (<a href="http://uconn.edu">UCONN</a>) should be a partner.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/12</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Attending <a href="http://www.scidatacon.org/2016/">SciDataCon 2016</a>.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/13</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Attending All Hands Meeting of Data Observation Network for Earth (<a href="https://www.dataone.org/">DataONE</a>).</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/14</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Conversation with Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (<a href="http://www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/index_eng.asp">NSERC</a>) <a href="http://www.[NSERC](http://www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/index_eng.asp)-crsng.gc.ca/Professors-Professeurs/Grants-Subs/CREATEResults-ResultatsFONCER_eng.asp">CREATE</a>.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/15</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Working on a reduced rate instructor training for Mexico.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/16</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: <a href="http://illinois.edu/">University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign</a> will be a partner.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/17</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Aarhus University in Denmark plans to join.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/18</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB) very close to sign.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/19</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Presentation for West Virginia University (UWV).</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/20</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Queensland Cyberinfrastructure Foundation (QCIF) has identified funds to partner with us and Data Carpentry.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-09-08/21</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Colleague from Oklahoma has moved to Dartmouth and is advocating for an membership.</p>



<h2>Motions</h2>

<h3>Motion #2016-09-08/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: That Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry jointly present two Community Service awards annually to volunteer members identified by the Steering Committees as having made outstanding contributions.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-09-08/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: That the Director of Instructor Training invite five people to begin training to become instructor trainers.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details: By the end of September, we expect to have 4 trainers in Aus/NZ, 8 in NorAm, 3 in UK/EU, and 1 in SAfrica. Realistically, it will take several weeks to create a formal recruitment process, approve it, deploy it, and filter applications, which would mean training wouldn’t start until mid-October, by which point there’s only a few weeks until people are distracted by end-of-year. Instead, I propose that we invite six people to begin the process now (so that they will be ready to start training in early 2017), while simultaneously working on a formal process to deploy in Nov 2016 to recruit people to start their training in Jan 2017.</p>
<p>If this motion is approved, the six people I wish to approach are:</p>
<ul>
<li>Karen Cranston</li>
<li>Sue McClatchy</li>
<li>Cam Macdonell</li>
<li>Mateusz Kuzak</li>
<li>Allegra Via</li>
<li>Celia van Gelder</li>
</ul>



<h2>Discussions</h2>

<h3>Discussion #2016-09-08/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: Decide on Q4 Meeting Dates for 2016</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed</p>
<p>Details:  We need to decide on meeting dates for the next quarter. Can we comment on the following and also think about the new school semester for some, as well as the lab meetings? Also, let’s try to do more with the Auxiliary meetings which can be done ad hoc, and perhaps parallel to the ‘official’ meeting. </p>
<p>Suggestions:</p>
<ul>
<li>Oct: 6th (first Thursday)</li>
<li>Nov: 3rd (first Thursday)</li>
<li>Dec:  1st (first Thursday)</li>
</ul>

<h3>Discussion #2016-09-08/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Kate Hertweck.</p>
<p>Text: Election</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable</p>
<p>Details: Some election-related events occur this month: first, the actual election on governance rule changes (Oct 10-14) and then the announcement of the next steering committee election (we can also announce the results of the rule changes election then; by Oct 17). We should have blog posts and list emails (discuss or announce) for these both.</p>

<h3>Discussion #2016-09-08/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Slideshows</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed</p>
<p>Details: We are occasionally asked for slides or slideshows about the Carpentries. The https://github.com/swcarpentry/slideshows repository has some, but they are all badly out of date. Do we delete (since nobody cared enough to keep them up to date), ask for community maintainers (i.e., treat them like lessons), or something else?</p>
<p>Note: we also have:</p>
<ul>
<li>https://github.com/swcarpentry/sysadmin</li>
<li>https://github.com/swcarpentry/admin</li>
</ul>

<h3>Discussion #2016-09-08/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Bill Mills.</p>
<p>Text: RISE Partnership / funding for diversity initiatives</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed</p>
<p>Details: The RISE project is conducting a multi-year study aimed at creating a research driven training workshop to reduce or eliminate gendered implicit bias in tech-facing orgs. RISE as represented by Toni Schmader (faculty, UBC Psychology) is interested in including the Carpentries in this project; while an excellent opportunity, the most difficult barrier is the $10k / year funding buy-in, which (IMO) we would need to find external funding for, at least for the first couple years until our finances settle down a bit. Discussion topic: where can we find $ for this (or similar) diversity initiatives?</p>

<h3>Discussion #2016-09-08/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Staying in Touch with Instructors</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed</p>
<p>Details: Require instructors to keep a valid email address on file for occasional high-priority announcements.</p>



<h2>Actions</h2>
<ol>

<li><p>Greg Wilson: Write blog post announcing it and post for review.</p></li>

<li><p>Greg Wilson: Invite instructors.</p></li>

</ol>
