SWC Assessment

Meeting notes for 2015-11-11 at 13:00 EST

Attended:
    Jason Williams
    Maneesha Sane
    Rayna Harris
    Daniel Chen

Jason: last chance for feedback on surveys; we should meet with Piotr to integrade with AMY; DC is going to hire a full-time assessment and split with SWC;
they should have data to see if we are asking the correct questions.  Per Greg: coordinating with other assessment groups.

Pre-survey learners: https://www.surveymonkey.com/create/survey/preview?r=true&sm=16wnNYRoEi2P3fwKZMLuYLvbImRjqbWn7MjeBqePiD54hm1Qqmnn2nJjrLhl1_2FBZ3DLZSM01zZnC7tJS5NyYHw_3D_3D

Post-survey learners: https://www.surveymonkey.com/create/survey/preview?r=true&sm=ySIDD9XyFd7AhG8X2dg4nRnnOvmbA5XNoExtfTkaua2YJZPkE5CfZRPCjTZwwxDK61_2Fv53FnwF7Oj2WcYPYSoA_3D_3D

long term: https://www.surveymonkey.com/create/survey/preview?r=true&sm=H57qUiV6Bgv06Szlepvw8b4t0eqmlsA3FnOb6kChQ4Idxqt4R_2BFg1Y8mHGZadYGMS1JqOnyn8RMfJqbrpL_2BRBg_3D_3D

Next surveys:
Post workshop instructor: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/DST3J95
older versions: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/SLVXF72
https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/QBXZXG5


Rayna: Who has access to the data?
Jason: As much of it will be public (after we de-identify it).

Maneesha: What about the survey itself?
Jason: People are welcome to have the questions, but we should validate the questions.  This is what the assessment person will be working on.

Maneesha: Want to be able to have the "click here and ready to go" be swc only.  Limit access for non-swc events.
Jason: We need to make sure other people will not just use the link.
Maneesha: Lots of people ask for data.  Lots of people ask for a ready to go survey for non-SWC workshops.

Daniel: we should make sure that we cover Mentoring committee questions:
-how many people (how many registered, how many dropped off)
-what did you cover
-installation challenges
-what was the workshop template
-what did studnets find useful
-what did not work/what needs improvements (comments on exercise questions?)
-who were the helpers
-pacing?
-anythine else?
-timing?
Here is a link to a recent debriefing http://pad.software-carpentry.org/swc-debriefing-morning

- expand git installation problems to others: unix, r, git, etc. have discrete answere "some problems, no problems, etc" and minimize free response answers

Issues for the workshop template and website:
    https://github.com/swcarpentry/site/issues/1153
    https://github.com/swcarpentry/workshop-template/issues/261

Rayna: how do we marry the curent respones form the mentoring meeting and the survey?
Jason: Prepare a view to the mentoring etherpad.  One way would be to have someone generate url to the responses (would be more manual)
Rayna: if the survey is more matrix based, we could then still have 'please elaborate' questions during the mentoring meeting.
