# 2016-12-06 minutes (post hoc)
Okay, technically these are not minutes as we did not have a meeting today. However, this is my attempt to reconcile the lack of minutes from previous meetings.

## 2016-12-05 progress update
Working draft of Carpentry Con proposal sent to DC and SWC directors for comments.

## 2016-2012-02 lack of progress update
Today, Alix, Greg, and Rayna discussed weather or not we can announce a "save the date". We determined that we are NOT ready to share the date as we are far from confirming that the event has the interest/support/funding/ect. to move forward.

## 2016-11-28 progress update
Working draft of Carpentry Con proposal sent to Bill Mills, Kate Hertweck, and Belinda Weaver for comments.

## 2016-11-02 Motion to create the Task Force approved
https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2016-11-02.md#motion-2016-11-021

## 2016-10-15 Task Force Proposal
The orginal proposal put forth to the SWC Steering Committee can be found [here](https://gvwilson.github.io/carpentrycon2017/) and [here](https://github.com/swcarpentry/carpentrycon2017/blob/gh-pages/index.md)
