Welcome to Software Carpentry Etherpad! This pad is synchronized as you type, so that everyone viewing this page sees the same text. This allows you to collaborate seamlessly on documents. Use of this service is restricted to members of the Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry community; this is not for general purpose use (for that, try etherpad.wikimedia.org). Users are expected to follow our code of conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct.html All content is publicly available under the Creative Commons Attribution License: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. 

After each meeting, these notes will be archived and publicly available here: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/master/TaskForces/2017-CarpentryCon

# Software Carpentry 2017 CarpentryCon Task Force

Proposed schedule, budget, and list of ideas/ suggestions
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NzZiTsPMArUyZ2S-pblOZZ84a-xp23Zuu6IjD-YXIEg/edit

Connection info:
    https://bluejeans.com/356077269

## Interested in helping out?
Attend a planning meeting on Monday January 9. We will discuss the current state of planning and take it from there. 

### Monday, January 9, 10:00 Eastern (03:00 UTC) <- should this be 15:00 UTC? (NCH)
- Alix Keener alixkee@umich.edu
- Rayna Harris rayna.harris@utexas.edu
- Mark Laufersweiler laufers at ou.edu
- Ashwin Srinath atrikut@clemson.edu
- Fotis Psomopoulos
- Marc Sze marcsze@med.umich.edu
- Ivo Agbor 11624476@mvula.univen.ac.za
- Arthur Endsley (endsley@umich.edu)
- Mateusz Kuzak (mateusz.kuzak@gmail.com)
- Jonah Duckles (jduckles@software-carpentry.org)
- Jason Williams (williams@cshl.edu)
- Maneesha Sane (maneesha@software-carpentry.org)
- Greg Wilson (gvwilson@software-carpentry.org)

### Monday, January 9, 17:00 Eastern (22:00 UTC)
- Alix Keener alixkee@umich.edu
- Greg Wilson gvwilson@software-carpentry.org
- Byron Smith bjsm@umich.edu
- Pauline Barmby pbarmby@uwo.ca (tentative)
- Jamie Estill (jaestill@med.umich.edu)
- Benjamin Stuermer (benjamin.stuermer@pnnl.gov)
- Eric Jankowski (ericjankowski@boisestate.edu)
- Aleksandra Pawlik (aleksandra.n.pawlik@gmail.com)
- Jamie Hadwin (jamie.hadwin@okstate.edu)

Apologies from Belinda Weaver who now cannot attend. Happy to volunteer as Library Carpentry contact/rep on this group.

###Want to attend the Carpentry Con event on May 13-15, 2017?
To help us get a tally of how many people are interested in attending, please add your name below. 
- Alix Keener
- Rayna Harris
- Mark Laufersweiler (just pointing out that this is Mother's Day weekend) Yes, we know. We have some ideas for special family-friendly events on Sunday to honor Mother's and we will childcare available all days
- Greg Wilson
- Sarah Supp
- Elizabeth Wickes (tentative)
- Ashwin Srinath
- Fotis Psomopoulos (I'd love to attend but I'm not yet sure on how to support travel from EU)
- Naupaka Zimmerman (tentative pending funding availability)
- Marc Sze
- Byron Smith
- Jason Williams
- Belinda Weaver
- Lachlan Deer (interested in helping out, but call times clash with my vacation "flying day" so hard to get access to internet ;) )
- Ivo Agbor
- Pauline Barmby
- Mateusz Kuzak
- Jamie Estill (U-M Local)
- Tobin Magle
- Neil Chue Hong (I'm not sure I can commit enough time to help out - and call slots clash with existing engagements - but I may be able to provide some travel bursaries for EU folks)
- Lex Nederbragt (tentative, also pending funding availability)
- Benjamin Stuermer (Pacific Northwest National Laboratory)
- Eric Jankowski 
- Arthur Endsley (Univ. of Michigan)
- Aleksandra Pawlik (not sure if I can get funds to travel)
- Jonah Duckles (Software Carpentry)
- Maneesha Sane (Carpentries)
- Jamie Hadwin (Oklahoma State University)
- Toby Hodges (EMBL, funding permitting)
- Olav Vahtras
- Neal Davis
- Deborah Paul
- Tim Dennis
- Malvika Sharan (EMBL, Heidelberg (need to check options for travel fund))


## Monday, January 9, 10:00 Eastern (03:00 UTC) 

### Introductions:
- Alix Keener: UMich Library
- Rayna Haris
- Jonah Duckles
- Mateusz: research software. trainer instructor
- Marc Sze: U Mich postdoc fellow
- Mark Larufersweiler: U Oklahoma
- Fotis Psomopoulous: Greece. bioinformatician
- Jason WIlliams: CSHL
- K. Arthur Endsley: U Michigan

AK: today is an opportunity to give update of current state of planing, get ideas, and moving forward

Ak current plan: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NzZiTsPMArUyZ2S-pblOZZ84a-xp23Zuu6IjD-YXIEg/edit
- Bringing together people from ALL the carpentry community, especially the library community. Share knowledge about community building, teaching, cirriculum, sharing our research, keynote speakers.
- location at U MIchican
- dates- May 13-15 Mothers day but we will have childcare and a mothers day picnic
- see link above for a more detailed plan
- breakout group/town hall events


JD: Anyone have some models for successful events?
- JD Mateusz might have some examples for some structured and unstrutured events that are driven by the community. SSI has one slide 3-min lightning talks to introduce everyone as well.
- Mateusz: what works really well with the collaboration workshop is a hackathon. people come with their own ideas and then they try to find other people to work with them (maybe on some training materials). before event people list what are the big challenges. then the organized do some managing to get people in groups and give them opportunties to communicate the output
- Mark- Midwest Data Librarian symposium. topics are predetermined but we got volunteers to do the handon interactive sessions. nice combo of conference and unconference. ONe of these was even hosted at UMich
OU RezBaz: 2016 Fall: https://sarahclayton.oucreate.com/resbaz/2016 Spring: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JuuH3ing4XIfHKtOeojo9flsfWXVExEE5rM-kEW4OGc/edit#gid=0
https://sarahclayton.oucreate.com/resbaz/ that 2016 link was broken
- Jason- awesome suggestions. interested in know what would make people come that. Can we add a questions on the election ballet about what they would like to see. Also, who have we reached or not with our invites? lets be sure we are invited our funders, collaborators, advisotry counicil folks.
- Fotis - +1 for the hackathon. For instance, have another bioinfomratics workshop that is not as specific as the genomcis data carpentry lesson. Having info session on how to better teach in particular classes would be very informative
- Mateusz is working on modifying the genomcis lessons as well with Elixir so that it better fits more needs of bioinformatics communities
- Rayna--there will be a dviersity of roles present (sponsors, instructors) we should have some parallel sessions. this is done by Michigan state and by Mozilla. Jason seconds parallel abstracts
- Mateusz - have some mentor-mentee sessions so people can meet IRL
- Jason - there is a lot of detail in the document, but one thing is missing is the really high level picture of what people walk away with. Please add a vision statment that clairfies that this helps unify our community and keep them up to date. 
-Want to walk away with a reset and an update. Refresher after instructor training. Feel up to date, doing the right things, in touch with the community

Alix: shoud we vote? +3  how should we go about doing this? 
-Greg: +1 for voting as long as sessions are posted and voted on at least a week in advance
- Jason - lots of us part of communities that do similar things that align with SWC mession. is there a way to come together with communities that we would like better. How do we bring in new people with intereste? Maybe bigger and better funded?
- Jonah - we should all walk away energized!!!
- Rayna: next steps?
--meet again in 2 weeks, same times



Contribution - please put your name beside your point
JW - I can be a general purpose helper; do whatever to see that gets done.
KAE - I'm interested in helping with local amenities and services, hospitality, particularly for people or groups of people unfamiliar with Ann Arbor area or who have English-as-a-second language or other cultural barriers and want help navigating buses, etc.; can help with organizing and disseminating such information for all participants; also interested in helping with hosting, coordinating, assisting any sessions
Jonah Duckles: I will help with fund raising and I'll be there :D
Greg Wilson: I can help with fundraising
Marc Sze (MS) - I would be willing to help in general, really interested in the the voting for session component though
FP: I can help (remotely unfortunately) with any task (ideally with setting up the hackathon and/or networking sessions).
Maneesha Sane - General support
MK not specific, can help with organising hachathon(s), teaching contributing to  training materials, general purpose
RH - instructor refresher training. suggest and solicit input on what types of refresher current instructors want
ML: General support, community building
Jamie Estill (jaestill@med.umich.edu) : I'm local to U-M and I work in medical school IT. Can help in general and interested in participating in hackathons during the meeting.

Comments on Budget:
    - JW too pricey not enough?


Local Organizing Community
- Alix
- Arthur Endsley
- Marc Sze
-Byron Smith

Program Development
- Maneesha Sane
- Fotis
- Jason Williams
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Rayna Harris
- Mateus
-Alix
- Pauline Barmby (code of conduct)
-Jamie Hadwin

Fundraising COmmittee
- Jonah
- Greg
- Jason
- Aleksandra Pawlik


### Action Items:
    - put the next meeting in two weeks on the calendar (RH)
    - archive minutes (RH)
    - engage the advostory board (maybe later)
    - add an issue to the communication repo https://github.com/carpentries/conversations
    
    
    
## Monday, January 9, 17:00 Eastern (22:00 UTC)

Connection info:
    https://bluejeans.com/356077269
    
    Proposed schedule, budget, and list of ideas/ suggestions
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NzZiTsPMArUyZ2S-pblOZZ84a-xp23Zuu6IjD-YXIEg/edit

### Introductions:
    Alix Keener, UMich Library

- Aleksandra Pawlik , SWCand DC Instructor and Trainer, New Zealand eScience Infrastructure
- Jamie Hadwin, Oklahoma State University, SWC Instructor
Byron Smith, University of Michigan, SWC Instructor
- Pauline Barmby, Western University @PBarmby instructor & policy subcommittee chair
- Eric Jankowski, Boise State University, SWC Instructor (almost), and UM alum
- Greg Wilson


Ideas and Suggestions
+1 to unconference model & taking notes/producing something from unconference sessions
Community voting: allows us to address gaps in the schedule
could capture when people are registering
example: https://www.software.ac.uk/cw17
Lightning talks: 60 sec to introduce yourself and what you do. Would really help with networking
Greg: a good example was a speed networking session. Talk a few minutes and then shift down a chair
(Ahem from CoC perspective, "speed networking" instead of "speed dating" OK?) 
We're a teaching organization: do more teaching and less discussing
Invite speakers who we might not otherwise encounter on our own campuses
+1
Registration: 
    "what would you like to learn?"
 "what would you like to teach?"
what is your general area (life sci/phys sci/etc)
what is your current position?
Goals of the event:
Networking
Teaching sessions
Energizing
"This workshop will be considered a success if ..." is a nice way to think about the goals. Can we state something??
Audience: strengthen existing connections--for this first event, people that are already part of SWC (instructor training required?)
Record the sessions, but don't try to make them interactive
some people would prefer to be recorded rather than livestreamed, e.g. for question askers
Speakers
http://improvscience.org/, Raquell Holmes
Inclusive teaching: Matthew Ouelle https://ctl.boisestate.edu/events/great-ideas/)
Structure and balance
A lot of us haven't me tin person. Use this opporrunity to invite those who have successfully collaborated to lead a session
Lightning talks are a good idea. Schedule just before a meal! Can organize birds of a feather tables, build community around particular tools/community
This is a good opportunity to make major changes to lessons, with people together (and also just getting that ball rolling: I'd like to "advertise" for some adjustments I've started using in the lessons.)


Contributions?
Aleksandra: fundraising
Greg: fundraising
Eric: not much time to commit but can help brainstorm speakers (and would likely attend and be happy to teach)
Pauline: help write Code of Conduct, program development?
Jamie: general support (also wanting to attend and can help at the event)
Byron: 1-2 hours a week til launch date, local support, help with programming/organizing sessions

Next steps
Will make a launch decision by end of February
Write a mission/goals/values statement: what will people get out of attending? How will it be successful?




