Welcome to Software Carpentry Etherpad! This pad is synchronized as you type, so that everyone viewing this page sees the same text. This allows you to collaborate seamlessly on documents. Use of this service is restricted to members of the Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry community; this is not for general purpose use (for that, try etherpad.wikimedia.org). Users are expected to follow our code of conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct.html All content is publicly available under the Creative Commons Attribution License: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. 

After each meeting, these notes will be archived and publicly available here: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/master/TaskForces/2017-CarpentryCon

# Software Carpentry 2018 CarpentryCon Task Force

Proposed schedule, budget, and list of ideas/ suggestions
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NzZiTsPMArUyZ2S-pblOZZ84a-xp23Zuu6IjD-YXIEg/edit

Connection info:https://bluejeans.com/356077269

Past meeting minutes:https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/ce0a3817c52dfb0f1b5c626a47337ed849e9cfef/TaskForces/2017-CarpentryCon/minutes 

Blog post announcing the of the 2017 CarpentryCon:https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/01/CarpentryCon.html

## Attendees
Monday, April 3rd, 10:00 EST / 14:00 UTC
- Rayna Harris
- Malvika Sharan (16:00 CET)
- Mateusz Kuzak
- Jason Williams
- Tracy Teal
- Mark Laufersweiler 
- Jamie Hadwin - jamie.hadwin@okstate.edu
-Ivo Arrey (11624476@mvula.univen.ac.za)

## Appologies
- Fotis Psomopoulos
- Jonah Duckles

## Agenda + Minutes
- **Welcome + Introductions**
- **Update from SWC and DC Steering Committees**
- SWC steering committee agreed to NOT move forward with a Michigan 2017 meeting  
- SWC steering committee really liked the idea of a 2018 meeting outside the US
- DC steering committee passed a motion to run the event in 2018. 
- Rayna would like to "close" the 2017 Carpentry Con task force "officially create" the 2018 task force with a new repo, eitherpad, blog post, etc.

## **Discuss the Location**
- Focus on inclusivity
- Not in the US
- Not in the UK
- in Europe or Canada are two options
- EMBL is an option
- need to determine the size to help pick the locaiton. what kind of event are we thinking about. 
- narrow down to two locations and then vote? How can we engage the community?
- we want for people to provide comments who can attend but can't host. truly a community event
- we could put out a call. we want to do it these weeks. ask the community who can help us host it. they put a bid in. we elect which one it would be. Their bid would include cost of hotel accomodation and travel and such. +3
- ask for 'bids' from the community to host the event at their insitution
- Action items: Develop a template for the bid to host the event. 
- New documents: This is the link to the bid template working document - https://docs.google.com/a/utexas.edu/document/d/1vG-VecUKBz2qLzwEjbEsdpug0-8i9Nfd3oI-Gk8zKD0/edit?usp=sharing

## **Discuss a timeline**
- Spring 2018 event
- need to book the venue 6mo - 1 year in advance 
- use the newletter. Go out at the end of the month
- April 21 deadline for contributions (last Friday of the month)
- April 24 will be go to the community
- Fundraising deadline - end of the calendar year. know we have the funds. 
- public announcment on April 21
- need 5 month notice for travel. have the rough draft of the progam as well. 
- May-June: submit bids
- August - evalate all the bids decide on the most appropriate
- Sept-December is a push for funds & planning, final green light at the end of 2017.  

## **Who else should be on our task member/planning committee**
- engaged stakeholders 
- people with event planning experience (especially events of this scale)
- Reach out to NumFocus for assistance/expertise who can help us put this in the format that sponsors could help
- Christian Barra (barrachri@gmail.com) - organizer of the PyData events. Is in Mateusz's mentoring group. 
- Stan Con organizers will also be helpful. 

## **Surveying the community**
- Develop survey to send out to the group to gauge excitement and participate
- Popup survey that is added to any page so that guest get 2 questions
- Add a few questions to the surveys at workshops
- add a twitter poll!
- distribute to the online groups such as the mentoring commitee
- ask about location, number of days, tentative time, barriers to attending, etc.  to gauge number of participants that can attend, from which institutes will they come - this will help the sponsors to decide if they want to fund
- ask for volunteers for list of things we need--if we need more, we can call for volunteers


## **Other Ideas / suggestions**
- have a transparent way that ideas can be submitted and commented on
- has there been a feasibility study? ability to find dates, the need for the event, ability to support all participants, interest in the event. What are we are trying to do and what do we need to be thinking about. 1) Where will it be 2) Can we pay for it. How do we decide if we can even do this?
- Let's make our vision/mission more clear. Have estimate of participation so we can ask for funding
- maybe find some checklists from the University groups. 


## **Useful links:**
-https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/ce0a3817c52dfb0f1b5c626a47337ed849e9cfef/TaskForces/2017-CarpentryCon/minutes/2017-01-09.md
- https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/01/CarpentryCon.html
- https://www.google.com/url?q=https://crpde.ou.edu/system/files/8152_Conf%20Services%20Tri%20Fold%20proof%2011.pdf&sa=U&ved=0ahUKEwjZtPHXwojTAhVLsFQKHYIrAmEQFggIMAI&client=internal-uds-cse&usg=AFQjCNE4Zds_-vPoSlRy6Bj2V7VzqIdDOg

## **Purpose of the event (written a few months ago, could be updated)**
- Community Building: bring together members of the Carpentry community, including instructors, partners, advocates, and staff, together with people sharing similar interests from around the globe. We will have a “come and learn” format that is different from most conferences.
- Sharing Knowledge: The event will include sessions on teaching methods, curriculum development, community organization, and leadership skills. (As noted in the preamble, the final list of sessions will be determined by the program committee in consultation with the community, balancing “who wants to learn what?” with “who’s willing to teach what?”.)
- Networking: Opportunities will be provided for participants to come together informally to share stories about challenges and successes.
- Contributed talks/posters: There will be at least one session where attendees can share how they have incorporated Carpentry techniques into their own research and teaching, and/or how they have grown their local Carpentry community. This is crucial as presenting will be a requirement if attendees are seeking travel support from their home institution.

## Next Steps
- Action item: Create a google drive folder with all the new documents. 
- Action items: Develop a template for the bid to host the event. 
- Action item: have a document that we can circulate. 
- Action item: recruit people with conference experience to participate in this task force. 
- Action item: Develop survey to send out to the group to gauge excitement and participate 
- Action item: Revamp the carpentry con readme and 
- Action item: Write blog post announce the close of the 2017 and opening of the 2018 task force.


