# Minutes from CarpentryCon 2018 taskforce meeting on 1st of May 2017
## Updates regarding last month's action items: 
### Create a google drive folder with all the new documents.
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B70o76-4Jmd0NzRteURZRWRhZGc
### Develop a template for the bid to host the event.
* When should we announce the template? Previously we said May - June
* By June 5, agree on BID. Announce from June 
* Will have a short discussion at Steering Committee Today. We need to ask how we can make decisions about CarpentryCon.
  Do we need to get an agreement from SC each time?
* Rayna will creat a google form today
* should contain our mission
### Have a document that we can circulate. 
* same timeline for a document to announce the bid
* Should contain our mission
### recruit people with conference experience to participate in this task force. 
* Christian have been recruited :) - has been organizaing EuroPython. 
### Develop survey to send out to the group to gauge excitement and participate  
* scratched. moving forward with survey.
### Revamp the carpentry con readme
* done
### Write blog post announce the close of the 2017 and opening of the 2018 task force.
* Update - was breifly announced in the newsletter
### Elect a chair and secretary.
* Mateusz is the Steering Committee Representative. Rayna and Mateusz are not allowed to be the task force chairs,
as per task force guidelines. Who is interested in these roles?

### New actions items:
- change google doc link in README.
- Determine who to include NumFocus in the planning

### Discussion points
* Question for the bid form: Do you have (professional) staff would can help organize the conference?
* Question for SWC: Who will be fiscally responsible? Carpentry, NumFocus? Ask Sue McClatchy
* budget?
* main costs is catering. 
* paying for speakers and travel (travel grants)
* can we have other institutions administer the grants? Travel grants from ELIXR, money never passes through our hands
* registration fee
* taxes for the conference (VAT) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Value-added_tax
* must included numfocus because money will change hands
* Sponsorship tiers
- need to revist who are our sponsors
- should we have one person who negotiates sponsorships?

* Timeline
  - when do we set the content
  - set an outline for the event before the bids  (keynotes, breakouts, food, hackathon) so that we know how much time for the whole conference is needed, what kind of sessions (handson, learning, discussions) do we want to have satelite events (hackathons?)

* Talk to NumFucus about
  - insurance, VAT, 

## "Assignments"
- Mark & Jamie - will draft a  time line skeleton program
- Christian & Mateusz - help with the drafting of the carpentrycon bid
- Rayna (with Sue and Maneesha) - finances chat with numfocus Thursday at 11 eastern

